README.md, before:

# CodeFox

![LOGO](./assets/badge.svg)

Welcome to CODEFOX! A next generation AI sequence full stack project generator with interactive chatbot.

## Key Features

💻 **Transforming Ideas into Projects**
🚀 **Extraordinary Modeling System**: Integrates an AI model to seamlessly connect every aspect of your project.
🤖 **Multi-Agent Generator**: Create and manage multiple intelligent agents to enhance project functionality.
⚡ **One-Click Deployment**: Deploy your project effortlessly to cloud services or clone it locally with ease.
✨ **Live Preview**: Interact with your project while engaging in AI-powered conversations to make real-time modifications.
🔧 **Precise Code Customization**: Leverage targeted and efficient visual tools for precise module adjustments.

## Prerequisites

### System Requirements

- Node.js >= 18.0.0
- PostgreSQL >= 14.0
- GPU (Optional, for local LLM model running)
- Memory: Minimum 16GB RAM recommended
- Storage: At least 10GB free space

### Development Tools

- PNPM 9.1.2 (`npm install -g pnpm@9.1.2`)
- Tmux >= 3.2
- Tmuxinator >= 3.0.0 (`gem install tmuxinator`)

### Optional Requirements

- NVIDIA CUDA Toolkit (for GPU acceleration)
- Docker & Docker Compose (for containerized development)

## Installation

1. **Clone the repository**

```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd codefox
```

2. **Install dependencies**

```bash
pnpm install
```

3. **Environment Configuration**

Create and configure environment files for each service:

**Backend (.env)**

```env
PORT=8080
JWT_SECRET=<your-jwt-secret>
JWT_REFRESH=<your-refresh-token-secret>
SALT_ROUNDS=10
OPENAI_BASE_URI=http://localhost:3001
```

**Frontend (.env)**

```env
NEXT_PUBLIC_GRAPHQL_URL=http://localhost:8080/graphql
```

**LLM Server (.env)**

```env
PORT=3001
MODEL_PATH=/path/to/model
MODEL_TYPE=llama
NODE_ENV=development
```

**Model Configuration (.codefox/config.json)**

Configure the AI models for chat and embedding. For cloud-based models, provide endpoint and token. For local models, omit the endpoint.

```json
{
  "$schema": "../config.schema.json",
  "chat": [
    {
      "model": "openai/gpt-4o-mini", // Required: Model identifier
      "alias": "gpt-4o-mini", // Required: Model alias for reference
      "endpoint": "https://openrouter.ai/api/v1", // Optional: API endpoint (omit for local models)
      "token": "<your-openrouter-token>", // Optional: API token (required if endpoint is specified)
      "default": true, // Optional: Set as default model
      "rps": 30 // Optional: Requests per second limit
    }
  ],
  "embedding": [
    {
      "model": "openai/text-embedding-ada-002", // Required: Model identifier
      "endpoint": "https://api.openai.com", // Optional: API endpoint (omit for local models)
      "token": "<your-openai-token>" // Optional: API token (required if endpoint is specified)
    }
  ]
}
```

Model Configuration Fields:

- **Chat Models**:

  - `model`: (Required) Model identifier
  - `alias`: (Required) Model reference name in the system
  - `endpoint`: (Optional) API endpoint URL. Omit for local models
  - `token`: (Optional) API access token. Required if endpoint is specified
  - `default`: (Optional) Set as the default model for chat
  - `rps`: (Optional) Rate limit for API requests per second

- **Embedding Models**:
  - `model`: (Required) Model identifier
  - `endpoint`: (Optional) API endpoint URL. Omit for local models
  - `token`: (Optional) API access token. Required if endpoint is specified

## Development

### Using Tmuxinator (Recommended)

Start all services with the pre-configured Tmuxinator setup:

```bash
pnpm dev
```

This creates a development environment with:

- Backend server (http://localhost:8080)
- Frontend development server (http://localhost:3000)
- LLM server (http://localhost:3001)
- GraphQL codegen watcher

### Manual Development

Start services individually:

```bash
# Start backend
cd backend
pnpm dev

# Start frontend
cd frontend
pnpm dev

# Start LLM server
cd llm-server
pnpm dev
```

### Development URLs

- Frontend: http://localhost:3000
- Backend GraphQL Playground: http://localhost:8080/graphql
- LLM Server: http://localhost:3001

## Architecture Overview

CodeFox consists of three main components that work together:

```
        +-------------+
        |  Frontend   |
        | (Next.js)   |
        +------+------+
               |
               | GraphQL
               |
        +------v------+
        |  Backend    |
        | (NestJS)    |
        +------+------+
               |
               | HTTP/WebSocket
               |
        +------v------+
        | LLM Server  |
        +-------------+
```

- **Frontend (Next.js)**: Provides the user interface and handles client-side logic
- **Backend (NestJS)**: Manages business logic, authentication, and project generation
- **LLM Server**: Handles AI model interactions and code generation

### Build System Architecture

The backend includes a sophisticated build system that manages project generation through a sequence of dependent tasks. Here's how it works:

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant User
    participant Context as BuilderContext
    participant Manager as HandlerManager
    participant Handler as BuildHandler
    participant Monitor as BuildMonitor
    participant VDir as VirtualDirectory

    User->>Context: Create new build sequence
    Context->>Manager: Initialize handlers
    Context->>Monitor: Start sequence monitoring

    loop For each node in sequence
        Context->>Context: Check dependencies
        alt Dependencies met
            Context->>Manager: Get handler instance
            Manager-->>Context: Return handler
            Context->>Monitor: Start node execution
            Context->>Handler: Execute run()

            Handler->>VDir: Update virtual files
            VDir-->>Handler: Files updated

            Handler-->>Context: Return result
            Context->>Monitor: End node execution
        else Dependencies not met
            Context->>Context: Wait and retry
        end
    end

    Context->>Monitor: Generate build report
    Context-->>User: Return project UUID
```

Key components:

1. **BuilderContext**

   - Manages the execution state of build nodes
   - Handles dependency resolution
   - Coordinates between handlers and virtual filesystem

2. **BuildHandlerManager**

   - Singleton managing handler instances
   - Provides handler registration and retrieval
   - Manages handler dependencies

3. **BuildHandler**

   - Implements specific build tasks
   - Can declare dependencies on other handlers
   - Has access to virtual filesystem and model

4. **BuildMonitor**

   - Tracks execution progress
   - Records timing and success/failure
   - Generates build reports

5. **VirtualDirectory**
   - Manages in-memory file structure
   - Provides file operations during build
   - Ensures atomic file updates

### Full-Stack Project Generation Workflow

The build system follows a structured workflow to generate a complete full-stack project:

```mermaid
graph TD
    %% Project Initialization
    Init[Project Initialization] --> Product[Product Requirements]
    Product --> UX[UX Design]

    %% UX Design Flow
    UX --> Sitemap[Sitemap Structure]
    UX --> Datamap[Data Structure]

    %% Backend Development
   Datamap --> DB[Database Schema]
   DB --> BE[Backend Structure]
   BE --> API[API Design]
   BE --> BackendCode[Backend Code]
   API --> BackendCode

   %% Frontend Development
   Sitemap --> Routes[Route Structure]
   Datamap --> Components[Component Design]
   Components --> Views[View Implementation]

   %% File Management and Generation
   Views --> FE[Frontend Code]
   API --> FE

   %% Subgraphs for different roles
   subgraph "Product Manager"
       Init
       Product
   end

   subgraph "UX Designer"
       UX
       Sitemap
       Datamap
   end

   subgraph "Backend Engineer"
       DB
       BE
       API
       BackendCode
   end

   subgraph "Frontend Engineer"
       Routes
       Components
       Views
       FE
   end

   %% Styling
   classDef product fill:#e1f5fe,stroke:#01579b
   classDef ux fill:#f3e5f5,stroke:#4a148c
   classDef backend fill:#e8f5e9,stroke:#1b5e20
   classDef frontend fill:#fff3e0,stroke:#e65100

   class Init,Product product
   class UX,Sitemap,Datamap ux
   class DB,BE,API,BackendCode backend
   class Routes,Components,Views,FE frontend
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Port Conflicts**

   - Ensure ports 3000, 8080, and 3001 are available
   - Check for any running processes: `lsof -i :<port>`

2. **Environment Issues**

   - Verify all environment variables are properly set
   - Ensure model path is correct in LLM server configuration
   - Verify model configurations in .codefox/config.json:
     - Check model identifiers are correct
     - Validate endpoint URLs for cloud-based models
     - Ensure API tokens are valid
     - Verify local model paths for non-cloud models

3. **Build Issues**

   ```bash
   # Clean installation
   pnpm clean
   rm -rf node_modules
   pnpm install

   # Rebuild all packages
   pnpm build
   ```

4. **Tmuxinator Issues**
   - Ensure Tmux version is >= 3.2: `tmux -V`
   - Kill existing session: `tmux kill-session -t codefox`
   - Check session status: `tmux ls`

## Additional Resources

- [API Documentation](./docs/api.md)
- [Contributing Guidelines](./CONTRIBUTING.md)
- [Change Log](./CHANGELOG.md)

## Support

For support and questions:

- GitHub Issues: [Create an issue](https://github.com/your-repo/issues)
- Documentation: [CodeFox Docs](./codefox-docs)

## License

ISC

Commit message:

Update README.md, add Experimental Stage, and demo video (#214)

README.md, after:

# CodeFox

![LOGO](./assets/badge.svg)

Welcome to CODEFOX! A next generation AI sequence full stack project generator with interactive chatbot.

## ⚠️ Experimental Stage

> **Note**: This project is currently in experimental stage and will start workflow to agent mode refactoring.

## Demo

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8c588e83-b155-445c-bfa7-ed67fb57e77f

## Key Features

💻 **Transforming Ideas into Projects**
🚀 **Extraordinary Modeling System**: Integrates an AI model to seamlessly connect every aspect of your project.
🤖 **Multi-Agent Generator**: Create and manage multiple intelligent agents to enhance project functionality.
⚡ **One-Click Deployment**: Deploy your project effortlessly to cloud services or clone it locally with ease.
✨ **Live Preview**: Interact with your project while engaging in AI-powered conversations to make real-time modifications.
🔧 **Precise Code Customization**: Leverage targeted and efficient visual tools for precise module adjustments.

## Prerequisites

### System Requirements

- Node.js >= 18.0.0
- PostgreSQL >= 14.0
- GPU (Optional, for local LLM model running)
- Memory: Minimum 16GB RAM recommended
- Storage: At least 10GB free space

### Development Tools

- PNPM 9.1.2 (`npm install -g pnpm@9.1.2`)
- Tmux >= 3.2
- Tmuxinator >= 3.0.0 (`gem install tmuxinator`)

### Optional Requirements

- NVIDIA CUDA Toolkit (for GPU acceleration)
- Docker & Docker Compose (for containerized development)

## Installation

1. **Clone the repository**

```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd codefox
```

2. **Install dependencies**

```bash
pnpm install
```

3. **Environment Configuration**

Create and configure environment files for each service:

**Backend (.env)**

```env
PORT=8080
JWT_SECRET=<your-jwt-secret>
JWT_REFRESH=<your-refresh-token-secret>
SALT_ROUNDS=10
OPENAI_BASE_URI=http://localhost:3001
```

**Frontend (.env)**

```env
NEXT_PUBLIC_GRAPHQL_URL=http://localhost:8080/graphql
```

**LLM Server (.env)**

```env
PORT=3001
MODEL_PATH=/path/to/model
MODEL_TYPE=llama
NODE_ENV=development
```

**Model Configuration (.codefox/config.json)**

Configure the AI models for chat and embedding. For cloud-based models, provide endpoint and token. For local models, omit the endpoint.

```json
{
  "$schema": "../config.schema.json",
  "chat": [
    {
      "model": "openai/gpt-4o-mini", // Required: Model identifier
      "alias": "gpt-4o-mini", // Required: Model alias for reference
      "endpoint": "https://openrouter.ai/api/v1", // Optional: API endpoint (omit for local models)
      "token": "<your-openrouter-token>", // Optional: API token (required if endpoint is specified)
      "default": true, // Optional: Set as default model
      "rps": 30 // Optional: Requests per second limit
    }
  ],
  "embedding": [
    {
      "model": "openai/text-embedding-ada-002", // Required: Model identifier
      "endpoint": "https://api.openai.com", // Optional: API endpoint (omit for local models)
      "token": "<your-openai-token>" // Optional: API token (required if endpoint is specified)
    }
  ]
}
```

Model Configuration Fields:

- **Chat Models**:

  - `model`: (Required) Model identifier
  - `alias`: (Required) Model reference name in the system
  - `endpoint`: (Optional) API endpoint URL. Omit for local models
  - `token`: (Optional) API access token. Required if endpoint is specified
  - `default`: (Optional) Set as the default model for chat
  - `rps`: (Optional) Rate limit for API requests per second

- **Embedding Models**:
  - `model`: (Required) Model identifier
  - `endpoint`: (Optional) API endpoint URL. Omit for local models
  - `token`: (Optional) API access token. Required if endpoint is specified

## Development

### Using Tmuxinator (Recommended)

Start all services with the pre-configured Tmuxinator setup:

```bash
pnpm dev
```

This creates a development environment with:

- Backend server (http://localhost:8080)
- Frontend development server (http://localhost:3000)
- LLM server (http://localhost:3001)
- GraphQL codegen watcher

### Manual Development

Start services individually:

```bash
# Start backend
cd backend
pnpm dev

# Start frontend
cd frontend
pnpm dev

# Start LLM server
cd llm-server
pnpm dev
```

### Development URLs

- Frontend: http://localhost:3000
- Backend GraphQL Playground: http://localhost:8080/graphql
- LLM Server: http://localhost:3001

## Architecture Overview

CodeFox consists of three main components that work together:

```
        +-------------+
        |  Frontend   |
        | (Next.js)   |
        +------+------+
               |
               | GraphQL
               |
        +------v------+
        |  Backend    |
        | (NestJS)    |
        +------+------+
               |
               | HTTP/WebSocket
               |
        +------v------+
        | LLM Server  |
        +-------------+
```

- **Frontend (Next.js)**: Provides the user interface and handles client-side logic
- **Backend (NestJS)**: Manages business logic, authentication, and project generation
- **LLM Server**: Handles AI model interactions and code generation

### Build System Architecture

The backend includes a sophisticated build system that manages project generation through a sequence of dependent tasks. Here's how it works:

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant User
    participant Context as BuilderContext
    participant Manager as HandlerManager
    participant Handler as BuildHandler
    participant Monitor as BuildMonitor
    participant VDir as VirtualDirectory

    User->>Context: Create new build sequence
    Context->>Manager: Initialize handlers
    Context->>Monitor: Start sequence monitoring

    loop For each node in sequence
        Context->>Context: Check dependencies
        alt Dependencies met
            Context->>Manager: Get handler instance
            Manager-->>Context: Return handler
            Context->>Monitor: Start node execution
            Context->>Handler: Execute run()

            Handler->>VDir: Update virtual files
            VDir-->>Handler: Files updated

            Handler-->>Context: Return result
            Context->>Monitor: End node execution
        else Dependencies not met
            Context->>Context: Wait and retry
        end
    end

    Context->>Monitor: Generate build report
    Context-->>User: Return project UUID
```

Key components:

1. **BuilderContext**

   - Manages the execution state of build nodes
   - Handles dependency resolution
   - Coordinates between handlers and virtual filesystem

2. **BuildHandlerManager**

   - Singleton managing handler instances
   - Provides handler registration and retrieval
   - Manages handler dependencies

3. **BuildHandler**

   - Implements specific build tasks
   - Can declare dependencies on other handlers
   - Has access to virtual filesystem and model

4. **BuildMonitor**

   - Tracks execution progress
   - Records timing and success/failure
   - Generates build reports

5. **VirtualDirectory**
   - Manages in-memory file structure
   - Provides file operations during build
   - Ensures atomic file updates

### Full-Stack Project Generation Workflow

The build system follows a structured workflow to generate a complete full-stack project:

```mermaid
graph TD
    %% Project Initialization
    Init[Project Initialization] --> Product[Product Requirements]
    Product --> UX[UX Design]

    %% UX Design Flow
    UX --> Sitemap[Sitemap Structure]
    UX --> Datamap[Data Structure]

    %% Backend Development
   Datamap --> DB[Database Schema]
   DB --> BE[Backend Structure]
   BE --> API[API Design]
   BE --> BackendCode[Backend Code]
   API --> BackendCode

   %% Frontend Development
   Sitemap --> Routes[Route Structure]
   Datamap --> Components[Component Design]
   Components --> Views[View Implementation]

   %% File Management and Generation
   Views --> FE[Frontend Code]
   API --> FE

   %% Subgraphs for different roles
   subgraph "Product Manager"
       Init
       Product
   end

   subgraph "UX Designer"
       UX
       Sitemap
       Datamap
   end

   subgraph "Backend Engineer"
       DB
       BE
       API
       BackendCode
   end

   subgraph "Frontend Engineer"
       Routes
       Components
       Views
       FE
   end

   %% Styling
   classDef product fill:#e1f5fe,stroke:#01579b
   classDef ux fill:#f3e5f5,stroke:#4a148c
   classDef backend fill:#e8f5e9,stroke:#1b5e20
   classDef frontend fill:#fff3e0,stroke:#e65100

   class Init,Product product
   class UX,Sitemap,Datamap ux
   class DB,BE,API,BackendCode backend
   class Routes,Components,Views,FE frontend
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Port Conflicts**

   - Ensure ports 3000, 8080, and 3001 are available
   - Check for any running processes: `lsof -i :<port>`

2. **Environment Issues**

   - Verify all environment variables are properly set
   - Ensure model path is correct in LLM server configuration
   - Verify model configurations in .codefox/config.json:
     - Check model identifiers are correct
     - Validate endpoint URLs for cloud-based models
     - Ensure API tokens are valid
     - Verify local model paths for non-cloud models

3. **Build Issues**

   ```bash
   # Clean installation
   pnpm clean
   rm -rf node_modules
   pnpm install

   # Rebuild all packages
   pnpm build
   ```

4. **Tmuxinator Issues**
   - Ensure Tmux version is >= 3.2: `tmux -V`
   - Kill existing session: `tmux kill-session -t codefox`
   - Check session status: `tmux ls`

## Additional Resources

- [API Documentation](./docs/api.md)
- [Contributing Guidelines](./CONTRIBUTING.md)
- [Change Log](./CHANGELOG.md)

## Support

For support and questions:

- GitHub Issues: [Create an issue](https://github.com/your-repo/issues)
- Documentation: [CodeFox Docs](./codefox-docs)

## License

ISC
